## Exercises

**1.1-1:** *Give a real world example that requires sorting or a real-world example that requires computing a convex hull.*

Sorting: An e-commerce site checkout flow offers customers various shipping methods for a basket of goods and sorts them by estimated time of delivery
Convex Hull: An application that maps the geolocational boundaries of a given neighborhood that contains the highest rated restuarants

**1.1-2:** *Other than speed, what other measures of efficiency might one use in a real world setting?*

Space complexity is another measure of efficiency. An algorithm can be fast, but will not successfully complete if a computer runs out of memory during execution.
In a real world setting, a company may base efficiency of cost versus speed. For example, a courier service would not send a single package via a private jet to a customer's home, even if that delivered the package much faster than a truck.

**1.1-3:** *Select a data structure that you have seen previously, and discuss its strengths and limitations*

A hash map is a datastructure that makes use of a hashing algorithm in which a given key can store a value within an array at a unique index. That hashing algorithm enables a program to retrieve the value for a given key in constant time. The limitations of the hash map are based on what hashing algorithm is used. The best hashing algorithm will always generate a unique index when given a different key, however less effective hashing algorithms can result in collisions, in which two keys that are provided as input result in the same index.

**1.1-4:** *How are the shortest-path and traveling salesmen problems given above similar? How are they different?*

Shortest path is similar to traveling salesman in that it's goal is to reduce the distance traveled between points. However, shortest path is concerned with just two points, whereas traveling salesmen is based on multiple points, in which the algorithm terminates when the salesmen has returned to the original point.

**1.1-5:** *Come up with a real-world problem in which only the best solution will do. Then come up with one in which a solution that is "approximately" the best is good enough.*

Best solution required: Medical software that measures a diabetic's blood sugar and alerts when insulin is needed.
Approximately is good enough: A program that determines how much food is needed in a football stadium based on capacity, demographics, weather conditions, etc.
