## Exercises

**1.2-1:**

> Give an example of an application that requires algorithmic content at the application level, and discuss the function of the algorithms involved.

Google's search functionality is an example of an application that requires algorithmic content at the application level. It must return based on text inputted by the user the best set of sites that match. To do this the algorithm must process the content of millions of sites to determine revelence. It must also process an immense amount of queries in order to determine whether or not one way of phrasing the query is equivalent to another, or means something else entirely. By factoring all of these different inputs, and by tracking how users behave based on the set of sites returned, Google's search algorithm is able to return more relevant information over time.

**1.2-2:**

> Suppose we are comparing implementations of insertion sort and merge sort on the same machine. For inputs of size n, insertion sort runs 8n<sup>2</sup> steps, while merge sort runs 64n * log(n) steps. For which values of n does insertion sort beat merge sort?

Insertion sort can is faster than merge sort with this runtime with an input of up to 43 items. Please see [exponential larger than log]()

**1.2-3:**

> What is the smallest value of n such that an algorithm whose run time is 100n<sup>2</sup> runs faster than an algorithm whose run time is 2<sup>n</sup> on the same machine?

The smallest value of n is 15. Please see [exponential faster than squared]()
