**4.1-1:**

> What does FIND-MAXIMUM-SUBARRAY return when all elements of `A` are negative?

`FIND-MAXIMUM-SUBARRAY` will return the first two incides of `A` along with the value of `0`. This will occur since `FIND-MAXIMUM-CROSSING-SUBARRAY` will always return `0` when returning both the `left_sum` and the `right_sum`, since when trying to compare values when iterating over each half of the array, the sum of those elements will never be greater than `0` (since we'd be adding negative numbers). Therefore, the initialized values for `left_sum` and `right_sum` would always be returned.

In the book (rather than my implementation), the `left_sum` and `right_sum` are initialized as sentinals to -&infin;. In this case, we'd always return the greatest value of the array.

**4.1-2:**

> Write the psuedocode for the brute-force method of solving the maximum subarray problem. Your procedure should run in &Theta;(n<sup>2</sup>) time.

The brute-force approach for this involves calculating every possible pair of buy and sell dates where the buy date is prior to the sell date:

```
BRUTE-FORCE-MAXIMUM-SUBARRAY(A):
  low = 0
  high = 0
  profit = 0

  for j = 0 to A.length - 1:
    i = j
    current_profit = 0

    while i <= A.length - 1:
      current_profit += a[i]

      if current_proft > profit:
        profit = current_profit
        low = j
        high = i

      i += 1

  return [low, high, sum]
```

**4.1-3:**

> Implement both the brute-force method and recursive algorithms for the maximum subarray problem on your own computer. What problem size n<sub>0</sub> gives the crossover point at which the recursive algorithm beats the brute-force algorithm? Then, change the base case of the recursive algorithm to use the brute-force algorithm whenever the problem size is less than n<sub>0</sub>. Does that change the crossover point?

Please see [brute-force maximum subarray](https://github.com/hillmandj/clrs-algorithms/tree/master/ch-4/code/brute_force_maximum_subarray.rb)
 and [recursive maximum subarray](https://github.com/hillmandj/clrs-algorithms/tree/master/ch-4/code/maximum_subarray.rb) for individual implementations, and [combined maximum subarray](https://github.com/hillmandj/clrs-algorithms/tree/master/ch-4/code/combined_maximum_subarray.rb) which toggles between the two based on the crossover point.

On my machine the crossover point (n<sub>0</sub>) at which the recursive algorithm was faster than that of the brute force approach was around 34. When comparing the brute-force approach with the combined approach, the crossover point was at about 16. This means that the combined approach starts becoming faster much earlier than the recursive approach.

**4.1-4:**

> Suppose we change the definition of the maximum subarray problem to allow the result to be an empty subarray, where the sum of the values of an empty subarray is 0. How would you change any of the algorithms that do not allow empty subarrays to permit an empty subarray to be the result?

We could scan the array for any positive values. If any exist, then we could run the algorithm normally. If none exist, we could exit the function and return 0 as the value.

**4.1-5:**

> Use the following ideas to develop a nonrecursive, linear-time algorithm for the maximum subarray problem. Start at the left end of the array, and progress towards the right, keeping track of the maximum subarray seen so far. Knowing a maximum subarray of `A[1..j]`, extend the answer to find the maximum subarray ending at index `j + 1` by using the following observation: a maximum subarray `A[1..j + 1]` is either a maximum subarray of `A[1..j]` or a subarray A[1..j + 1]`, for some 1 <= i <= j + 1. Determine the maximum subarray of the form `A[i..j + 1] in constant time based on knowing a maximum subarray ending at index `j`.

Please see [linear runtime maximum subarray](https://github.com/hillmandj/clrs-algorithms/tree/master/ch-4/code/linear_runtime_maximum_subarray.rb)
